syllabus/syllabus.md, before:

---
layout: course
title: Biostat 216
---

# Biostat 216 - Mathematical Methods for Biostatistics - 2021 Fall

## Syllabus

### Course Description

Linear algebra and multivariate calculus. 

### Lecture

Tuesdays and Thursdays, 10am-11:50am @ CHS 41-268. 

Zoom link <https://ucla.zoom.us/j/98003745462> (synchronous) is provided for students who cannot attend in-person class **due to medical reasons**, for example, failing the [UCLA COVID Symptom Monitoring Survey](https://uclasurveys.co1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_3qRLtouCYKzBbH7).

### Instructor

[Dr. Hua Zhou](http://hua-zhou.github.io/)  
Office: CHS 21-254A  
Email: <huazhou@ucla.edu>  
Office hours: Tuesdays and Thursdays, 12pm-2pm @ CHS 21-254A and Zoom (synchronous) <https://ucla.zoom.us/j/98003745462>.

### Teaching Assistant

Do Hyun Kim: <dkim116@ucla.edu>  
Office hours: ??? @ ??? Zoom <https://ucla.zoom.us/j/98003745462> (synchronous).

### Course Description

This 4-unit course is designed for first year biostatistics MS and PhD students. It will review, and in some cases introduce, specialized topics in Linear Algebra, Multivariate Calculus and Scientific Computing that are considered to be particularly pertinent for the subsequent courses in our MS and PhD curriculum. It is required for MS students and optional for PhD students.

See the [schedule](https://ucla-biostat216-2021fall.github.io/schedule.html) page for a tentative list of topics.  

### Prerequisite

Prerequisites are the same as those for admission into biostatistics MS program. Students should have seen one course in basic linear algebra at the level of UCLA’s Math 33A (using a textbook such as O. Bretscher, Linear Algebra, 5th Ed., Prentice Hall.) and a Calculus sequence at the level of UCLA’s Math 31AB (e.g. J. Rogawski, Calculus, 3rd Edition , W.H. Freeman & Co). Biostatistics MPH students will need to obtain consent from the instructor to take this course. Students with more advanced mathematical preparation prior to admission may not need to take this course and should consult with their academic advisers.

### Course Webpage

<https://ucla-biostat216-2021fall.github.io/>

### CCLE Site

<https://ccle.ucla.edu/course/view/21F-BIOSTAT216-1>

Recorded lectures will be posted on CCLE. 

### Course Materials

No required textbooks.

Recommended books (not required):

* Boyd and Vandenberghe, _Introduction to Applied Linear Algebra: Vectors, Matrices, and Least Squares_, Cambridge University Press (2018), [UCLA library link](https://search.library.ucla.edu/permalink/01UCS_LAL/17p22dp/alma9992042123606533)  

* Strang, _Linear Algebra and Learning From Data_, Wellesley, MA: Wellesley-Cambridge Press (2019), [UCLA library link](https://search.library.ucla.edu/permalink/01UCS_LAL/17p22dp/alma9912384821806531)  

* Banerjee and Roy, _Linear Algebra And Matrix Analysis For Statistics_, 2nd Edition, CRC Press (2014), [UCLA library link](https://search.library.ucla.edu/permalink/01UCS_LAL/192ecse/cdi_safari_books_9781482248241)  

* Magnus and Neudecker, _Matrix Differential Calculus With Applications in Statistics and Econometrics_, John Wiley & Sons, Inc. (2019), [UCLA library link](https://search.library.ucla.edu/permalink/01UCS_LAL/17p22dp/alma9914812790606531)

### Attendance

Class attendance is **mandatory**. If you are not able to attend a lecture due to medical or technical reasons, please proactively communicate with the instructor and TA and notify us your circumstances. 

### Homework

7 to 8 homework assignments.  

### Exam

In-class midterm in week 5 or 6. Final exam on Dec 9, 2021 @ 3pm-6pm.

### Final Grade

Homework (20%) + midterm (30%) + final exam (50%).

### UCLA ADA Policy 

Students needing academic accommodation based on a disability should contact the Center for Accessible Education (CAE) at (310)825-1501 or in person at Murphy Hall A255. When possible, students should contact the CAE within the first two weeks of the term as reasonable notice is needed to coordinate accommodations. For more information visit <https://www.cae.ucla.edu>.

ADA Contact:  
Nickey Woods   
Center for Accessible Education  
A255 Murphy Hall. 
Phone: (310)825-1501  
TTY/TTD: (310)206-6083  
Fax: (310)825-9656  

### Inclusivity

UCLA’s Office for Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion provides resources, events, and information about current initiatives at UCLA to support equality for all members of the UCLA community. I hope that you will communicate with me or your TA if you experience anything in this course that does not support an inclusive environment, and you can also report any incidents you may witness or experience on campus to the Office of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion on their website <https://equity.ucla.edu>.


### Academic Integrity

**Message about Academic Integrity to All UCLA Students from UCLA Dean of Students**: UCLA is a community of scholars. In this community, all members including faculty staff and students alike are responsible for maintaining standards of academic honesty. As a student and member of the University community, you are here to get an education and are, therefore, expected to demonstrate integrity in your academic endeavors. You are evaluated on your own merits. Cheating, plagiarism, collaborative work, multiple submissions without the permission of the professor, or other kinds of academic dishonesty are considered unacceptable behavior and will result in formal disciplinary proceedings usually resulting in suspension or dismissal.

**Forms of Academic Dishonesty**: As specified in the UCLA Student Conduct Code, violations or attempted violations of academic dishonesty include, but are not limited to, cheating, fabrication, plagiarism, multiple submissions or facilitating academic integrity:   
• Allowing another person to take a quiz, exam, or similar evalution for you  
• Using unauthorized material, information, or study aids in any academic exercise or examination – textbook, notes, formula list, calculators, etc.  
• Unauthorized collaboration in providing or requesting assistance, such as sharing information   
• Unauthorized use of someone else’s data in completing a computer exercise  
• Altering a graded exam or assignment and requesting that I be regraded

**Plagiarism**: Presenting another’s words or ideas as if they were one’s own  
• Submitting as your own through purchase or otherwise, part of or an entire work produced verbatim by someone else  
• Paraphrasing ideas, data or writing without properly acknowledging the source  
• Unauthorized transfer and use of someone else’s computer file as your own  
• Unauthorized use of someone else’s data in completing a computer exercise  

**Multiple Submissions**: Submitting the same work (with exact or similar content) in more than one class without permission from the instructor to do so. This includes courses you are currently taking, as well as courses you might take in another quarter.

**Facilitating Academic Dishonesty**: Participating in any action that compromises the integrity of the academic standards of the University; assisting another to commit an act of academic dishonesty   
• Taking a quiz, exam, or similar evaluation in place of another person   
• Allowing another student to copy from you  
• Providing material or other information to another student with knowledge that such assistance could be used in any of the violations stated above (e.g., giving test information to students in other discussion sections of the same course)  
• Altering data to support research  
• Presenting results from research that was not performed  
• Crediting source material that was not used for  research  

While you are here at UCLA, if you are unsure whether what you are considering doing is cheating, **don’t take chances** – ask your professor. In addition, avoid placing yourself in situations which might lead your professor to **suspect you of cheating**.

**Alternatives to Academic Dishonesty**

• Seek out help – Meet with your professor, ask for assistance as needed.  
• Ask for an extension – if you explain your situation to your professor, she/he might be able to grant you an extended deadline for an upcoming assignment.  
•	See a counselor at Student Psychological Services, and/or your school, college or department – UCLA has many resources for students who are feeling the stresses of academic and personal pressures. 

If you would like more information, please come see us at the Dean of Students’ Office in 1206 Murphy Hall, call us at (310)825-3871 or visit their website at <https://www.deanofstudents.ucla.edu>.

Commit message:

post first two lecture notes

syllabus/syllabus.md, after:

---
layout: course
title: Biostat 216
---

# Biostat 216 - Mathematical Methods for Biostatistics - 2021 Fall

## Syllabus

### Course Description

Linear algebra, multivariate calculus, and their applications in real world problems such as optimization, clustering, image compression, compressed sensing, matrix completion, and neural network.

### Some COVID-19 related campus policies

- Mandatory daily symptom monitoring survey: <https://uclasurveys.co1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_3qRLtouCYKzBbH7> or UCLA'S mobile app. Need to fill out each morning. If instructed by the survey to not come to campus, notify instructors. 

- Face masks are required inside all UCLA buildings. Occasionally drinking water should be fine. 

- Policies may be changing. Follow closely the emails sent by Fielding School of Public Health (FSPH) and UCLA campus.

### Lecture

Tuesdays and Thursdays, 10am-11:50am @ CHS 41-268. 

Zoom link <https://ucla.zoom.us/j/98003745462> (synchronous) is provided for students who cannot attend in-person class **due to medical reasons**, for example, instructed by the [UCLA COVID Symptom Monitoring Survey](https://uclasurveys.co1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_3qRLtouCYKzBbH7).

### Instructor

[Dr. Hua Zhou](http://hua-zhou.github.io/)  
Office: CHS 21-254A  
Email: <huazhou@ucla.edu>  
Office hours: Tuesdays and Thursdays, 12pm-1pm @ CHS 21-254A and Zoom (synchronous) <https://ucla.zoom.us/j/98003745462>.

### Teaching Assistant

Do Hyun Kim: <dkim116@ucla.edu>  
Office hours (Zoom): Wednesdays 7pm-8pm @ Zoom <https://ucla.zoom.us/j/98003745462> and Fridays 2pm-3pm @ <https://ucla.zoom.us/j/98003745462>.

### Course Description

This 4-unit course is designed for first year biostatistics MS and PhD students. It will review, and in some cases introduce, specialized topics in Linear Algebra, Multivariate Calculus and Scientific Computing that are considered to be particularly pertinent for the subsequent courses in our MS and PhD curriculum. It is required for MS students and optional for PhD students.

See the [schedule](https://ucla-biostat216-2021fall.github.io/schedule/schedule.html) page for a tentative list of topics.  

### Prerequisite

Prerequisites are the same as those for admission into biostatistics MS program. Students should have seen one course in basic linear algebra at the level of UCLA’s Math 33A (using a textbook such as O. Bretscher, Linear Algebra, 5th Ed., Prentice Hall.) and a Calculus sequence at the level of UCLA’s Math 31AB (e.g. J. Rogawski, Calculus, 3rd Edition , W.H. Freeman & Co). Biostatistics MPH students will need to obtain consent from the instructor to take this course. Students with more advanced mathematical preparation prior to admission may not need to take this course and should consult with their academic advisers.

For example, if you understand the questions in this [previous homework](https://ucla-biostat216-2019fall.github.io/hw/hw5/hw5.html) and either know how to solve them or know where to find solutions, then this course is too easy for you. 

### Course Webpage

<https://ucla-biostat216-2021fall.github.io/>

### CCLE Site

<https://ccle.ucla.edu/course/view/21F-BIOSTAT216-1>

Recorded lectures will be posted on CCLE. Homework will be submitted to CCLE.

### Course Materials

Recommended books (not required):

* Boyd and Vandenberghe, _Introduction to Applied Linear Algebra: Vectors, Matrices, and Least Squares_, Cambridge University Press (2018). Authors kindly provide a free copy [online](https://web.stanford.edu/~boyd/vmls/).  

    The first couple of weeks heavily use material in this textbook. There is a parallel [EE133A](https://www.seas.ucla.edu/~vandenbe/133A/) this quarter. 

* Strang, _Linear Algebra and Learning From Data_, Wellesley, MA: Wellesley-Cambridge Press (2019), [UCLA library link](https://search.library.ucla.edu/permalink/01UCS_LAL/17p22dp/alma9912384821806531)  

* Banerjee and Roy, _Linear Algebra And Matrix Analysis For Statistics_, 2nd Edition, CRC Press (2014), [UCLA library link](https://search.library.ucla.edu/permalink/01UCS_LAL/192ecse/cdi_safari_books_9781482248241)  

* Magnus and Neudecker, _Matrix Differential Calculus With Applications in Statistics and Econometrics_, John Wiley & Sons, Inc. (2019), [UCLA library link](https://search.library.ucla.edu/permalink/01UCS_LAL/17p22dp/alma9914812790606531)  

### Attendance

Class attendance is **mandatory**. If you are not able to attend a lecture due to medical or technical reasons, please proactively communicate with the instructor and TA and notify us your circumstances. 

### Homework

7 to 8 homework assignments.  

### Exam

In-class midterm around week 6. Final exam on Dec 9, 2021 @ 3pm-6pm.

### Final Grade

Homework (20%) + midterm (30%) + final exam (50%).

### UCLA ADA Policy 

Students needing academic accommodation based on a disability should contact the Center for Accessible Education (CAE) at (310)825-1501 or in person at Murphy Hall A255. When possible, students should contact the CAE within the first two weeks of the term as reasonable notice is needed to coordinate accommodations. For more information visit <https://www.cae.ucla.edu>.

ADA Contact:  
Nickey Woods   
Center for Accessible Education  
A255 Murphy Hall. 
Phone: (310)825-1501  
TTY/TTD: (310)206-6083  
Fax: (310)825-9656  

### Inclusivity

UCLA’s Office for Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion provides resources, events, and information about current initiatives at UCLA to support equality for all members of the UCLA community. I hope that you will communicate with me or your TA if you experience anything in this course that does not support an inclusive environment, and you can also report any incidents you may witness or experience on campus to the Office of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion on their website <https://equity.ucla.edu>.

### Academic Integrity

**Message about Academic Integrity to All UCLA Students from UCLA Dean of Students**: UCLA is a community of scholars. In this community, all members including faculty staff and students alike are responsible for maintaining standards of academic honesty. As a student and member of the University community, you are here to get an education and are, therefore, expected to demonstrate integrity in your academic endeavors. You are evaluated on your own merits. Cheating, plagiarism, collaborative work, multiple submissions without the permission of the professor, or other kinds of academic dishonesty are considered unacceptable behavior and will result in formal disciplinary proceedings usually resulting in suspension or dismissal.

**Forms of Academic Dishonesty**: As specified in the UCLA Student Conduct Code, violations or attempted violations of academic dishonesty include, but are not limited to, cheating, fabrication, plagiarism, multiple submissions or facilitating academic integrity:   
• Allowing another person to take a quiz, exam, or similar evalution for you  
• Using unauthorized material, information, or study aids in any academic exercise or examination – textbook, notes, formula list, calculators, etc.  
• Unauthorized collaboration in providing or requesting assistance, such as sharing information   
• Unauthorized use of someone else’s data in completing a computer exercise  
• Altering a graded exam or assignment and requesting that I be regraded

**Plagiarism**: Presenting another’s words or ideas as if they were one’s own  
• Submitting as your own through purchase or otherwise, part of or an entire work produced verbatim by someone else  
• Paraphrasing ideas, data or writing without properly acknowledging the source  
• Unauthorized transfer and use of someone else’s computer file as your own  
• Unauthorized use of someone else’s data in completing a computer exercise  

**Multiple Submissions**: Submitting the same work (with exact or similar content) in more than one class without permission from the instructor to do so. This includes courses you are currently taking, as well as courses you might take in another quarter.

**Facilitating Academic Dishonesty**: Participating in any action that compromises the integrity of the academic standards of the University; assisting another to commit an act of academic dishonesty   
• Taking a quiz, exam, or similar evaluation in place of another person   
• Allowing another student to copy from you  
• Providing material or other information to another student with knowledge that such assistance could be used in any of the violations stated above (e.g., giving test information to students in other discussion sections of the same course)  
• Altering data to support research  
• Presenting results from research that was not performed  
• Crediting source material that was not used for  research  

While you are here at UCLA, if you are unsure whether what you are considering doing is cheating, **don’t take chances** – ask your professor. In addition, avoid placing yourself in situations which might lead your professor to **suspect you of cheating**.

**Alternatives to Academic Dishonesty**

• Seek out help – Meet with your professor, ask for assistance as needed.  
• Ask for an extension – if you explain your situation to your professor, she/he might be able to grant you an extended deadline for an upcoming assignment.  
•	See a counselor at Student Psychological Services, and/or your school, college or department – UCLA has many resources for students who are feeling the stresses of academic and personal pressures. 

If you would like more information, please come see us at the Dean of Students’ Office in 1206 Murphy Hall, call us at (310)825-3871 or visit their website at <https://www.deanofstudents.ucla.edu>.
